Developer insights communication acknowledgement guide (#3110)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/developer-insights/index.md

[#developer-insights-org-leadership](https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C01P1TVDJR4): This channel is for the Engineering Managers, Product Managers and Product Designers to discuss higher-level matters impacting the whole org.

> #### Acknowledgment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Slack acknowledgment
```

In an async-first communication environment it is important to remove assumptions/uncertainty around whether teammates have seen, understood or acted on a message.  

> To assist in this regard we provide the following guideline for teammates to follow when communicating and responsing in Slack. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To assist in this regard we provide the following guideline for teammates to follow when communicating and responding in Slack. 
```

**The most important thing to remember is not which emoji to use, but rather to remember to acknowledge and to do it in a clear and unambiguous way.**

*When acknowledging a request:*

> - `:thumbsup:` (👍) = acknowledgment as in I see the request and will action it

Reviewer 3: I usually use 👍🏻  to endorse something, but not necessarily act on it myself (e.g. maybe it was a request to someone else, or a group of people I am a part of but someone else owns it). This description here would kind of make me worried I can't do that anymore as it may get misunderstood (and it's a really common emoji reaction). Can we resolve that?

Author: Thinking about this...

If responding 👍 to a request addressed to someone else (either directly or a group you are no part of) I think it would be fine.

If responding 👍 to a request addressed to a group of people you are a part of but you have no intention of actioning it, I would question whether it's the best reaction to use? Maybe there's something more appropriate to use to voice your support like the "+1" emoji or :point_up:?

Do you maybe have some ideas on how we could change this to be better. Maybe use the :ack: emoji reaction?

Reviewer: (I agree with Jean for both cases here – if it's like "Hey code insights team can you all email me your favorite snack" and you thumbs up it, I would assume you were going to act on that.)

> - `:thumbsup:` (👍) = acknowledgment as in I see the request and will action it

Author: ```suggestion
- `:thumbsup:` (👍) = I see the request and will action it
```

> - `:white_check_mark:` (✅) = acknowledgment as in I have completed my action on the request

Author: ```suggestion
- `:white_check_mark:` (✅) = I have completed my action on the request
```

*When acknowledging a statement:*

- `:thumbsup:` 👍 = acknowledgment as in I agree with the statement

> - `:thumbsdown:` 👎 = acknowledgment as in I disagree with a statement - encouraged to follow 

Author: ```suggestion
- `:thumbsdown:` 👎 = acknowledgment as in I disagree with a statement - encouraged to always follow up with written response
```

> - `:thumbsup:` 👍 = acknowledgment as in I agree with the statement
> - `:thumbsdown:` 👎 = acknowledgment as in I disagree with a statement - encouraged to always follow up with written response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `:thumbsup:` 👍 = I agree with the statement
- `:thumbsdown:` 👎 =  I disagree with a statement - encouraged to always follow up with written response
```

(I think "acknowledgement as in" is not necessary here and kind of a long phrase to keep repeating/rereading; if you agree then would remove in the above section as well)

Reviewer 2: +1, I was going to leave the same feedback but couldn't figure out how to do it in a single suggestion :-)

Author: @Joelkw my copy savior 😉 
Yes let's go ahead with this.

*When acknowledging a question:*

> It is always preferred to provide a written response.

Reviewer 2: For a simple yes/no question, I don't know why a 👍  wouldn't be an acceptable response. E.g., "Does anyone mind if we move tomorrow's meeting to Thursday?"

Author: ```suggestion
It is always preferred to provide a written response, unless it's a simple yes/no question in which case `:thumbs-up:` (👍)/`:thumbs-down:` (👎) is an acceptable response.
```

> It is preferred to provide a written response, unless it's a simple yes/no question in which case `:thumbs-up:` (👍)/`:thumbs-down:` (👎) is an acceptable response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should provide a written response unless it's a simple yes/no question, in which case `:thumbs-up:` (👍)/`:thumbs-down:` (👎) is acceptable.
```

> It is always preferred to provide a written response, unless it's a simple yes/no question in which case `:thumbs-up:` (👍)/`:thumbs-down:` (👎) is an acceptable response.

Author: ```suggestion
It is preferred to provide a written response, unless it's a simple yes/no question in which case `:thumbs-up:` (👍)/`:thumbs-down:` (👎) is an acceptable response.
```
